# Guide

flecss is a minimalist and straightforward (S)CSS framework.

## Motivation

Choosing a CSS methodology is decided based on what feels right, rather than reasonable. Over past decade, content utility-first – content agnostic – CSS frameworks have risen to the top. Most prominent, this is, Bootstrap and Tailwind. In contrast to content-first (such as BEM), the utility-first approach bases on a comprehensive set of utilities that are sufficient to compose more or less any layout and style of. According frameworks provide those utility classes out-of-the-box. The key advantage is to prevent bloat CSS, as property groups are not frequently repeated. With other words, utility-first CSS is DRY.

Consistency is at the downside of utility-first CSS: Component are described solely in markup by composition of utility classes. To maintain consistency of visual elements, i.e. reuse components, markup on a different page needs to perfectly reproduce the composition. Unless combined with a comprehensive markup component framework, utility-first CSS is rarely an idiomatic approach to enforce consistent components.

flecss provides utility classes for commonplace layouting, but leaves the rest to individual stylesheets. With SCSS, flecss can be used as a foundation for inheritance. Composition can be shifted from the markup to stylesheets. Due to in-built optimisations, flecss compositions share isolated utility classes and thus prevent bloat CSS, but are DRY.

Pun intended: flecss uses flexbox to great extent to be highly responsive by design.

## Design Pillars

The creation of flecss has been backed by years of UI/UX design with CSS. It seeks to walk the edge between utility- and component-first CSS. The core design pillars are to provide

1. few but powerful layouting utilities, namely space (system) related classes,
2. enable stylesheet-based, i.e. SCSS composition,
3. SCSS mixins, and functions to use flecss values in arbitrary contexts (such as setting a div's height to the large fontsize).