# Concepts

Many utility-based CSS frameworks aim for compositional completeness. Thereby, an extensive space of layout and style should be enabled through composition of provided utility classes. Atomic utilities, such as for background colors, are close to inline styles, or as evident as custom defined utilities.

flecss only provides utilities that favour a consistent layout. At that, space is the pivotal aspect. A consistent layout should use a spacing logic, i.e. scale linearly or exponentially around a base unit. Writing utilities that base on the same spacing logic certainly is a more complex task than writing utilities for simple style atomics. flecss spacing utilities enable both markup- and stylesheet-based composition.

``` html
<!-- Markup-based Composition -->
<strong class="text--xl">Example</strong>
```

``` scss
// Stylesheet-based Composition
strong {
    @include flecss.class("text--xl"); 
}
```

## Spacing

flecss maintains an exponential spacing system: The (configurable) base unit is multiplied by a (configurable) scale coefficient to the power of the space order. The space orders that are assignable are as follows:

| Order | Power |
| :- | -: |
| `xxs` | `-3` |
| `xs` | `-2` |
| `s` | `-1` |
| `m` | `0` |
| `l` | `1` |
| `xl` | `2` |
| `xxl` | `3` |

Based on designated breakpoints, space growth is increasingly discounted for smaller viewports. In numbers, by `10%` below the breakpoint `m`, `17.5%` below `s`, and `20%` below `xs`.

> The base space unit is described by the configuration variable `$space-base-unit`, which has a default value of `1.75rem`. The space scale coefficient is desicribed by `$space-scale-coefficient`, with a default of `2`.

## Syntax

Each flecss class name consists of a purposeful identifier. Using a class with the identifier only fulfills a generic purpose (e.g. padding to all sides). If applicable, an underscore connected specifier can be given to target a certain aspect only (e.g. top to only pad at the top). For everything that is subject to spacing, a double dash connected space modifier can be used to change the effective space magnitude (e.g. padding size). A class is thus an identifier, and optionally a specifier and (space) modifier – in that order. Below are all syntactically correct class name patterns:

- `.<identifier>`
- `.<identifier>_<specifier>`
- `.<identifier>--<modifier>`
- `.<identifier>_<specifier>--<modifier>`

The following pattern is particularly invalid (mind the order of tokens):

- `.<identifier>--<modifier>_<specifier>`

> Without an explicit modifier, the default space is applied. Unless specified differently, the space order `m` corresponds to the default.

## Defaults

In flecss, any container element (`body`, `main`, `section`, `div`, etc.) contains children in flexbox columns by default. Paired with the layouting utilites, flecss-based user interfaces should be responsive out-of-the-box. As goes woth the flecss idea, custom needs are supposed to be served with custom styles – for responsiveness the flecss breakpoint mixins help.

> Many browser default styles serve a legacy requirement. flecss defines a bunch of reasonable style defaults (see [_defaults.scss](https://github.com/flecss/flecss/blob/main/src/_defaults.scss)).