# Color and Theme

flecss' only provides utilities that are related to space in order to foster consistent and logical layouts. Other popular frameworks' utilities, like Bootstrap or Tailwind, also provide utilities such as for adding a certain background color to an element. Indeed, color should also base on a logical model when it comes to shading. Each color of a crafted color scheme, this is, should be used only with few discrete shades.

## Color

flecss provides a powerful interface to define and use colors with custom SCSS. Working with flecss colors comes with two advantages over working with literals: Inherent color shades, and an optional dark theme alternative color. The shades are `darker`, `dark`, `normal`, `light`, `lighter`, where `normal` evidently is the original color. Upon use, the color of a certain theme – independent of the currently active theme – may be specified via argument.

``` scss
@include flecss.color($name, $color [, $dark-theme-color])

use: flecss.color($name, [$shade: "normal" [, $theme]])
```

``` scss
@use "flecss";

@include flecss.color("primary", #AD8AF9);
@include flecss.color("bg", #F3F3F7, #181925);

html {
  background-color: flecss.color("bg");
}

a {
  color: flecss.color("primary"); 
  
  &:hover {
    color: flecss.color("primary", "light");
  }
}
```

### Custom Utilities

To share an example of supplementary utilities to the flecss library, the following depicts how to define background color utilities:

``` scss
@use "flecss";

@mixin custom-color-utility($name, $light-color, $dark-color: null) {
  @include flecss.color($name, $light-color, $dark-colo);
  
  .#{$light-color} {
    background-color: flecss.color($name);
  }
}

@include custom-color-utility("bg", #F3F3F7, #181925);
```

``` html
<section class="section bg">
  ...
</section>
```

## Theme

There are two system-native themes (color schemes): light and dark. flecss' colors adopt the current theme if accordingly defined. Arbitrary customisations can be stated for single themes with the flecss theme mixin.

``` scss
html {
  background: url("../img/hero-light.png");
  
  @include theme--dark {
    background: url("../img/hero-dark.png");
  }
```